Why Macbeth is Responsible for His Own Corruption

In the play, “Macbeth,” the playwright, William Shakespeare, tells a gripping tale of great tragedy. The main character, Macbeth, is a strong and brave warrior, yet this play shows how any man can become power hungry and corrupted. This corruption can be traced back to the Witches, Lady Macbeth, and mainly, himself.

The Witches play a large role in Macbeth's corruption and thirst for power, as they originally planted the idea of kingship into his mind by saying, “All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!” If the Witches had said nothing, the idea of becoming king would nevertheless eventually form in his mind, for Macbeth gained an immense amount of power in such a short amount of time. However, because the Witches told him of his supposed destiny, he believed it, and sought after it, for he thought that it was his right to do so. This leads to the fact that Macbeth is easily persuaded to do malicious acts, even though it goes against what he believes. The Witches later appear in the play, giving Macbeth yet another prophecy, telling Macbeth that “none of woman born / Shall harm Macbeth.” Because of this prophecy, Macbeth believes that he shall not die, for there is no man who is not born from a woman. This gives Macbeth a large amount of false courage, for he believes that he shall not die. Near the end of the play, however, Macbeth is slain by Macduff, who was born from a cesarean section. Not only does this add an interesting twist to the play, but it is also another example of how easily Macbeth can be persuaded. The Witches clearly play a large role in Macbeth’s corruption, through telling him prophecies that he believes in without question. Just like the Witches, Lady Macbeth is also able to persuade Macbeth.

Lady Macbeth is an evil and important character in the play, as she fuels her husband's ambition for the throne. Macbeth is against the idea of to murdering King Duncan, for he feels it is wrong. Conversely, Lady Macbeth would “dash'd the brains out,” of her own child in order to get to the throne. These feelings are quite polarizing, but eventually Lady Macbeth wins over her husband. Lady Macbeth creates a “master” plan to get King Duncan’s Guards drunk, and have Macbeth carry out the murder with the Guards daggers. However, Macbeth fails to carry out this simple plan and instead brings the daggers back to his wife. This causes an immense amount of paranoia in Macbeth, for he believes that he did not successfully execute the plan, and will be discovered. After the murder, Macbeth regrets what he did, for he did not want to “bear the knife” himself, even though he has killed and slaughtered many men before. If it was not for Lady Macbeth, the murder may not have occurred, and instead, Macbeth would have waited for King Duncan to die of natural causes. While Lady Macbeth is almost completely responsible for the murder, Macbeth is the one who sent her a letter telling what had happened with the Witches. Bringing the last reason of corruption to his own self.

Macbeth himself is the main reason for his corruption. Although the Witches told him of his future, Macbeth decided to believe that it is true and pursued it. Not only this, but Macbeth chose to tell Lady Macbeth what had happened, instead of keeping it to himself and Banquo. If Macbeth had more willpower, he would have been able to deny his ambitions and stay as a thane, but he decided to embrace the prophecies. If Macbeth had been more logical, he would have realized that he would be happy as both the Thane of Glamis and Cawdor. He could not, however, accept this, for he desired more power. Macbeth could have also completely denied the prophecies, believing that they are completely absurd. Macbeth is strong of body, yet lacking in willpower. Even though Macbeth was told that he shall become both the King and Thane of Cawdor, he could have denied the right to the throne. Because he did not, he started to go down a path of self-destruction and corruption, also greatly responsible for the murder of King Duncan.

If Macbeth’s willpower had been stronger, he could have stayed as a wealthy and content thane, yet because of the Witches prophecies, he believed that he could gain more power. While Lady Macbeth is largely responsible for the Murder of King Duncan, if Macbeth had more self-control and decided not to tell her about the Witches, many things could have been avoided. For example, the murder of King Duncan and the slaying of Macduff’s family. If it had not been for the Witches, Lady Macbeth and Macbeth himself, Macbeth’s corruption could have been avoided and monstrous acts would never have been committed. 




you our lots maybe I 